---
id: 75
drupal_id: 4521
title: I'm back
permalink: /blog/2012/07/05/im-back/
created_at: 2012-07-05 14:39:44.000000000 Z
updated_at: 2012-07-05 14:51:46.000000000 Z
promoted: true
state: published
categories:
- Human
series:
- around the world in 40 days
---
I'm back.

I've been back in the USA for about a week now, and in that week, I've had to re-adjust to life in a country where walking in front of buses is *not* a good idea, where the primary and only signs are in English, and where I can type on a full-size keyboard. Trying to type was weird at first - my fingers didn't bend the right way, I kept tripping over my own hands, my arms got fatigued quickly. 

Who knew typing was a skill you lose when you're not using it?

I've been reluctant to get back into writing. There's so much to narrate, so many stories to tell. I was only able to share a few of my experiences while I was traveling, due to the spotty internet connections, trying to write up everything on my iPhone, and generally being distracted by things like swimming in the Dead Sea, crawling inside the pyramids, riding camels through Petra, and canoeing in Australia.

But it's coming. I'll be sharing some of my stories, as well as the blizzard of thoughts that have been spinning through my mind ever since I got back. Part of me wants to sort these out, and do this chronologically and in order, and tell all the stories first - but that's not going to happen. I'm going to pick back up, writing as usual, dropping in my notes and stories and pictures as I process them.

If you missed the things I did share while I was gone, here they are:
http://micahredding.com/blog/series/around-world-40-days

I was also able to post a few things to [twitter](http://twitter.com/micahtredding) and [facebook](http://facebook.com/micahredding).

Several of you have sent me really great notes and encouragement, and I can't thank you enough. If you've had anything happen over the last month-and-a-half that you want to share, I'd love to hear about it.

-Micah
