---
id: 51
drupal_id: 4545
title: '1357193911'
permalink: /blog/2013/01/03/1357193911/
created_at: 2013-01-03 06:18:31.000000000 Z
updated_at: 2013-01-03 06:18:31.000000000 Z
state: published
---
I've toyed with the idea of abandoning the term "Christian" before. Here's the problem with that: in doing so, I would be abandoning the rich history and language surrounding that term. In the short term, this would mean a lot fewer obstacles to my ideas, but in the long term, it would deprive me and others of all that we could have access to.

In fact, the process of rediscovering important concepts (things like "atonement", "redemption", etc) within a new framework of thought is one of the great joys of my life. To discover that something initially seen as problematic is actually a beautiful and rational thing is a wonderful experience. And when you make that discovery, you have suddenly gained a world of rich meaning and poetry.

Few people succeed at creating a language from scratch. I think the reason is that existing languages have had millions of people pouring their hopes and dreams into them. There is simply no way to recreate that.

Similarly, even Christianity wasn't started from scratch. It could never have flourished without the deep vein of historic Judaism it drew from. 

So, this is something I struggle with all the time. But my suggestion would be to not worry so much about the short-term obstacles, and focus instead on building reservoirs of meaning for the future.

http://micahredding.com/blog/2011/09/16/language

https://www.facebook.com/groups/transfigurism/permalink/10152387406715436/?comment_id=10152387538150436&offset=0&total_comments=1
