---
id: 19
drupal_id: 4578
title: About
permalink: /blog/2014/12/16/about/
created_at: 2014-12-16 15:02:41.000000000 Z
updated_at: 2017-04-14 14:27:58.367498000 Z
state: published
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/micahredding/image/upload/v1453059695/micah_mustache.jpg
images:
- title: 
  remote_url: http://res.cloudinary.com/micahredding/image/upload/v1453059695/micah_mustache.jpg
  public_id: micah_mustache
  upload: image/upload/v1453059695/micah_mustache.jpg
  main: true
---
Micah Redding is a software developer and writer on the subject of human values and technology. He grew up as a preacher’s kid, spent eight years as a rock musician, and has traveled extensively, to places such as Kathmandu, Afghanistan, and the coast of Africa. In 2012, he found himself in Tahrir Square during the first election after the Egyptian revolution. 

In his work as a software developer, he has helped startups strategically lay the groundwork for open-ended growth, bringing insights from agile development and the open source community to bear on challenging technical and business problems. His work on diverse mobile and web projects led him to create and co-host a podcast which bridges the worlds of business and technological strategy, and helps normal human beings understand how to work confidently with software developers and software development teams.

He lives in Nashville, Tennessee, where he has helped to organize vibrant inter-religious dialogue, cutting-edge art events, and public conversations on the technological singularity and the future of the human race. He has been active in promoting and working with a large annual charity walk, and in 2014, he co-founded the Christian Transhumanist Association to further public discourse on religion, technology, and the future of humanity. 

Micah is part of a big and boisterous family, who occasionally all drop by for a visit, friends and newcomers in tow. 
